** Folder StratisBitcoinFullNode\src\Stratis.Bitcoin\P2P\Peer\ **

** File StratisEdited\src\Stratis.Bitcoin\P2P\PeerConnector.cs **

---


This interface represents Contract for "PeerConnector.
    
public interface IPeerConnector : IDisposable { }


---


This int type get set property represents The maximum amount of peers which the node can connect to (defaults to 8).

int MaximumNodeConnections { get; set; }

---


This get property represents The collection of peers which the node is currently connected to.

NetworkPeerCollection ConnectedPeers { get; }

---


This get set property represents Other peer connectors which this instance relates. 
        
This is used to ensure that the same IP doesn't get connected to in this connector.
        
        
RelatedPeerConnectors RelatedPeerConnector { get; set; }


---


This get property represents Specification of requirements which the "PeerConnector" should have when connecting to other peers.

NetworkPeerRequirement Requirements { get; }


---


This method  Adds a peer to the "ConnectedPeers.
        
This will only happen if the peer successfully handshaked with another.
        
        
void AddPeer(NetworkPeer peer);


---


This method Removes a given peer from the "ConnectedPeers.

This will happen if the peer state changed to "disconnecting", "failed" or "offline".
        
        
void RemovePeer(NetworkPeer peer);


---

This method Starts an asynchronous loop that connects to peers in one second intervals.

If the maximum amount of connections has been reached ("MaximumNodeConnections), the action gets skipped.
        
void StartConnectAsync();
		
		
---		


This class is for Connects to peers asynchronously, filtered by "PeerIntroductionType.
    
public sealed class PeerConnector : IPeerConnector { }


---


This field represents The async loop which we need to wait upon before we can dispose of this connector.

private IAsyncLoop asyncLoop;


---


This field is for Factory for creating background async loop tasks.

private readonly IAsyncLoopFactory asyncLoopFactory;


---


This field represents The cloned parameters used to connect to peers. 

private readonly NetworkPeerConnectionParameters currentParameters;

---


This field represents How to calculate a group of an IP, by default using NBitcoin.IpExtensions.GetGroup.

private readonly Func<IPEndPoint, byte[]> groupSelector;

---

This field represents Global application life cycle control - triggers when application shuts down.

private readonly INodeLifetime nodeLifetime;

---

This field represents The network which the node is running on.

private Network network;

---

This field represents The network peer parameters that is injected by "Connection.ConnectionManager.

private readonly NetworkPeerConnectionParameters parentParameters;

---

This field represents Peer address manager instance, see "IPeerAddressManager".

private readonly IPeerAddressManager peerAddressManager;
		
		
---

This field represents What peer types (by "PeerIntroductionType" this connector should find and connect to.)

private readonly PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType;

---

This field represents Factory for creating P2P network peers.

private readonly INetworkPeerFactory networkPeerFactory;

---

This constructor is Constructor whic is used for unit testing.

internal PeerConnector(IPeerAddressManager peerAddressManager, PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType) { }

---


This constructor is Constructor used by dependency injection.

IPeerAddressManager peerAddressManager,
internal PeerConnector(
Network network, 
INodeLifetime nodeLifeTime, 
NetworkPeerConnectionParameters parameters, 
NetworkPeerRequirement requirements, 
Func<IPEndPoint, byte[]> groupSelector, 
IAsyncLoopFactory asyncLoopFactory, 
PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType, 
INetworkPeerFactory networkPeerFactory) { }


---

This method Attempts to connect to a random peer.

private Task ConnectAsync() { }

---

This method Disconnects all the peers in "ConnectedPeers".

private void Disconnect() { }


---


This method Selects a peer from the address manager.
        
Refer to "IPeerAddressManager.SelectPeerToConnectTo(PeerIntroductionType)" for details on how this is done.
        
internal NetworkAddress FindPeerToConnectTo() { } 


---

** File StratisEdited\src\Stratis.Bitcoin\P2P\PeerDiscoveryLoop.cs **

---


This class is for Async loop that discovers new peers to connect to.

public sealed class PeerDiscoveryLoop : IDisposable { }


---

This field is for The async loop which we need to wait upon before we can shut down this connector.

private IAsyncLoop asyncLoop;


---

This field is for Factory for creating background async loop tasks.

private readonly IAsyncLoopFactory asyncLoopFactory;

---

This field is for Global application life cycle control - triggers when application shuts down.

private readonly INodeLifetime nodeLifetime;

---

This field is for Peer address manager instance, see "IPeerAddressManager".

private readonly IPeerAddressManager peerAddressManager;

---

This field is for The amount of peers to find.

private readonly int peersToFind;

---

This field represents The network the node is running on.

private readonly Network network;

---

This field is for Factory for creating P2P network peers.

private readonly INetworkPeerFactory networkPeerFactory;

---

This method Starts an asynchronous loop that periodicly tries to discover new peers to add to the "PeerAddressManager".
        
public void DiscoverPeers() { }

---

** File StratisEdited\src\Stratis.Bitcoin\P2P\PeerAddressManager.cs **

---

This interface is for Contract for "PeerAddressManager".

public interface IPeerAddressManager : IDisposable { }

---

This property is for Data folder of where the json peer file is located.

DataFolder PeerFilePath { get; set; }
		
---


This property is for Key value store that indexes all discovered peers by their end point.

ConcurrentDictionary<IPEndPoint, PeerAddress> Peers { get; }


---


This method Adds a peer to the "Peers dictionary".
        
Only routable IP addresses will be added. "IpExtensions.IsRoutable(IPAddress, bool)"
        
        
void AddPeer(NetworkAddress networkAddress, IPAddress source, PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType);


---


This method Adds a set of peers to the "Peers dictionary".
        
Only routable IP addresses will be added. "IpExtensions.IsRoutable(IPAddress, bool)"
        
        
void AddPeers(NetworkAddress[] networkAddress, IPAddress source, PeerIntroductionType introductionType);


---

This method Finds a peer by endpoint.

PeerAddress FindPeer(IPEndPoint endPoint);

---

This method Loads peers from a json formatted file on disk.

void LoadPeers();
		
---

This method Persists peers to disk in json format.

void SavePeers();

---

This method represents that A connection attempt was made to a peer.

Increments "PeerAddress.ConnectionAttempts of the peer as well as the "PeerAddress.LastConnectionSuccess".
        
        
void PeerAttempted(IPEndPoint endpoint, DateTimeOffset peerAttemptedAt);


---

This method represents that A peer was successfully connected to.
        
Resets the "PeerAddress.ConnectionAttempts" and "PeerAddress.LastConnectionAttempt of the peer".

Sets the peer's "PeerAddress.LastConnectionSuccess" to now.
        
        
void PeerConnected(IPEndPoint endpoint, DateTimeOffset peerAttemptedAt);


---

This method represents that A version handshake between two peers was successful.

Sets the peer's "PeerAddress.LastConnectionHandshake" time to now.
        
        
void PeerHandshaked(IPEndPoint endpoint, DateTimeOffset peerAttemptedAt);


---


This method Selects a random peer (by "PeerIntroductionType") to connect to.

Use a 50% chance for choosing between tried and new peers.
        
NetworkAddress SelectPeerToConnectTo(PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType);

---

This method Selects a random set of preferred peers to connects to.
        
See "PeerAddressExtensions.Random(IEnumerable{PeerAddress})".
        
        
IEnumerable<NetworkAddress> SelectPeersToConnectTo();

---

This class represents that This manager keeps a set of peers discovered on the network in cache and on disk.
    
The manager updates their states according to how recent they have been connected to.
    
public sealed class PeerAddressManager : IPeerAddressManager
{ }


---


This method Returns peers where they have never have had a connection attempt or have been connected to.
        
public static IEnumerable<PeerAddress> New(this ConcurrentDictionary<IPEndPoint, PeerAddress> peers, PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType)
{ } 


---


This method Returns peers where they have have had connection attempts, successful or not.
        
public static IEnumerable<PeerAddress> Tried(this ConcurrentDictionary<IPEndPoint, PeerAddress> peers, PeerIntroductionType peerIntroductionType)
{ }
		
---

This method Returns a random peer from a given set of peers.

public static PeerAddress Random(this IEnumerable<PeerAddress> peers)
{ }        

---


** File StratisEdited\src\Stratis.Bitcoin\P2P\PeerAddressManagerBehaviour.cs **

---


This class is for Behaviour implementation that encapsulates "IPeerAddressManager".

Subscribes to state change events from "NetworkPeer" and relays connection and handshake attempts to the "IPeerAddressManager" instance.
    
    
public sealed class PeerAddressManagerBehaviour : NetworkPeerBehavior { }


---


This field is for Peer address manager instance, see "IPeerAddressManager".

private readonly IPeerAddressManager peerAddressManager;

        
---

TODO: We need to refactor this as the StateChanged event handlers only gets attached AFTER the peer has connected, which means that we can never go:
if (peer.State == NetworkPeerState.Connected) which is more intuitive.

This happens in PeerDiscovery as well where we connect and then disconnect straight after.

private void AttachedPeer_StateChanged(NetworkPeer peer, NetworkPeerState previousState) { }

---

